<b>You can run the projects via the colab link in each project page </b>

<b>Spam_Email_Detection</b> - is a Naive Bayes classification method using Python. Goal is to classify a given message either a “spam” or a “ham”, using a Naive Bayes classifier.

<b>Hill_Climbing_Algo</b> - demonstrates the hill climbing and random restart hill climbing algorithm using python.

<b>Decision_Tree_Classifier</b> - contains the Iris dataset that was used in R. A Fisher’s paper. You can also find the dataset in the UCI Machine Learning Repository. Goals: Include a basic description of the data. Why a decision tree is a reasonable model to try for this data. Split the data into training, validation, and testing sets. Fit a decision tree on the training dataset. Tune at least 2 hyperparameters in the decision tree model based on the performance on the validation set or using cross-validation. Generate plot of hyperparameter values vs performance metric. Train the model using optimal hyperparameters on the train + validation data. Test it on test data and generate a classification report. Inspect the model by visualizing and interpreting the results.

<b>Oscillation_Classification</b> - Distributed energy resources such as solar and wind power stations present havoc to the distribution portion of the grid. The intermittent fluctuations of power coming from the generation source creates power quality issues and instability challenges, which make the possibility of system failures more frequent and causes extensive damage to the power system infrastructure. To tackle this issue, optimizing wind turbine performance is essential, and the analysis of current wave data is crucial. Accurate identification of oscillatory signals within this data is challenging but vital, as these signals indicate operational concerns.

<b>Abalone_Classification</b> - The price of Abalone is in direct correlation with their age. The older the Abalone, the more expensive they are. To properly determine the age of these Abalone, an extraneous process of cutting, weighing, and counting rings takes place. A way to expedite this process is to train Machine Learning algorithms to predict the age using a set of features taken directly from the Abalone data collected. Our goal for this project was to use the features collected from an Abalone dataset from the UCI ML Repository, in order to predict the age or number of rings in Abalone. The dataset we used came from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. Inside the dataset, we are provided with eight numerical features: Length, Diameter, Height, Whole_Weight, Shucked_Weight, Viscera_Weight, Shell_Weight and the number of rings. And one categorical feature being the Sex of the Abalone.
